---
title: "Value Vectors"
parent: "Design Docs"
---
This document defines the data structures required for passing sequences of
columnar data between [Operators](https://docs.google.com/a/maprtech.com/docum
ent/d/1zaxkcrK9mYyfpGwX1kAV80z0PCi8abefL45zOzb97dI/edit#bookmark=id.iip15ful18
mm).

# Goals

#### Support Operators Written in Multiple Language

ValueVectors should support operators written in C/C++/Assembly. To support
this, the underlying ByteBuffer will not require modification when passed
through the JNI interface. The ValueVector will be considered immutable once
constructed. Endianness has not yet been considered.

#### Access

Reading a random element from a ValueVector must be a constant time operation.
To accomodate, elements are identified by their offset from the start of the
buffer. Repeated, nullable and variable width ValueVectors utilize in an
additional fixed width value vector to index each element. Write access is not
supported once the ValueVector has been constructed by the RecordBatch.

#### Efficient Subsets of Value Vectors

When an operator returns a subset of values from a ValueVector, it should
reuse the original ValueVector. To accomplish this, a level of indirection is
introduced to skip over certain values in the vector. This level of
indirection is a sequence of offsets which reference an offset in the original
ValueVector and the count of subsequent values which are to be included in the
subset.

#### Pooled Allocation

ValueVectors utilize one or more buffers under the covers. These buffers will
be drawn from a pool. Value vectors are themselves created and destroyed as a
schema changes during the course of record iteration.

#### Homogenous Value Types

Each value in a Value Vector is of the same type. The [Record Batch](https://d
ocs.google.com/a/maprtech.com/document/d/1zaxkcrK9mYyfpGwX1kAV80z0PCi8abefL45z
Ozb97dI/edit#bookmark=kix.s2xuoqnr8obe) implementation is responsible for
creating a new Value Vector any time there is a change in schema.

# Definitions

Data Types

The canonical source for value type definitions is the [Drill
Datatypes](http://bit.ly/15JO9bC) document. The individual types are listed
under the ‘Basic Data Types’ tab, while the value vector types can be found
under the ‘Value Vectors’ tab.

Operators

An operator is responsible for transforming a stream of fields. It operates on
Record Batches or constant values.

Record Batch

A set of field values for some range of records. The batch may be composed of
Value Vectors, in which case each batch consists of exactly one schema.

Value Vector

The value vector is comprised of one or more contiguous buffers; one which
stores a sequence of values, and zero or more which store any metadata
associated with the ValueVector.

# Data Structure

A ValueVector stores values in a ByteBuf, which is a contiguous region of
memory. Additional levels of indirection are used to support variable value
widths, nullable values, repeated values and selection vectors. These levels
of indirection are primarily lookup tables which consist of one or more fixed
width ValueVectors which may be combined (e.g. for nullable, variable width
values). A fixed width ValueVector of non-nullable, non-repeatable values does
not require an indirect lookup; elements can be accessed directly by
multiplying position by stride.

Fixed Width Values

Fixed width ValueVectors simply contain a packed sequence of values. Random
access is supported by accessing element n at ByteBuf[0] + Index * Stride,
where Index is 0-based. The following illustrates the underlying buffer of
INT4 values [1 .. 6]:

![image](../img/value1.png)
<!--https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/iobQUgeF4dyrWFeqVfhIBZKbkjrLk5sBJqYhWdzm
IyMmmcX1pzZaeQiKZ5OzYeafxcY5IZHXDKuG_JkPwJrjxeLJITpXBbn7r5ep1V07a3JBQC0cJg4qKf
VhzPZ0PDeh-->

Nullable Values

Nullable values are represented by a vector of bit values. Each bit in the
vector corresponds to an element in the ValueVector. If the bit is not set,
the value is NULL. Otherwise the value is retrieved from the underlying
buffer. The following illustrates a NullableValueVector of INT4 values 2, 3
and 6:

![](../img/value2.png)

<!--![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/3M19t18av5cuXflB3WYHS0OJBaO-zFHD8TcNaKF0
ua6g9h_LPnBijkGavCCwDDsbQzSoT5Glj1dgIwfhzK_xFPjPzc3w5O2NaVrbvEQgFhuOpK3yEr-
nSyMocEjRuhGB)-->

  

#### Repeated Values

A repeated ValueVector is used for elements which can contain multiple values
(e.g. a JSON array). A table of offset and count pairs is used to represent
each repeated element in the ValueVector. A count of zero means the element
has no values (note the offset field is unused in this case). The following
illustrates three fields; one with two values, one with no values, and one
with a single value:

![](../img/value3.png)
<!--![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/nFIJjIOPAl9zXttVURgp-xkW8v6z6F7ikN7sMREm
58pdtfTlwdfjEUH4CHxknHexGdIeEhPHbMMzAgqMwnL99IZlR_YzAWvJaiStOO4QMtML8zLuwLvFDr
hJKLMNc0zg)-->

ValueVector Representation of the equivalent JSON:

x:[1, 2]

x:[ ]

x:[3]

Variable Width Values

Variable width values are stored contiguously in a ByteBuf. Each element is
represented by an entry in a fixed width ValueVector of offsets. The length of
an entry is deduced by subtracting the offset of the following field. Because
of this, the offset table will always contain one more entry than total
elements, with the last entry pointing to the end of the buffer.

  
![](../img/value4.png)
<!--![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/ZxAfkmCVRJsKgLYO0pLbRM-
aEjR2yyNZWfYkFSmlsod8GnM3huKHQuc6Do-Bp4U1wK-
hF3e6vGHTiGPqhEc25YEHEuVTNqb1sBj0LdVrOlvGBzL8nywQbn8O1RlN-vrw)-->

Repeated Map Vectors

A repeated map vector contains one or more maps (akin to an array of objects
in JSON). The values of each field in the map are stored contiguously within a
ByteBuf. To access a specific record, a lookup table of count and offset pairs
is used. This lookup table points to the first repeated field in each column,
while the count indicates the maximum number of elements for the column. The
following example illustrates a RepeatedMap with two records; one with two
objects, and one with a single object:

![](../img/value5.png)
<!--![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com
/l8yo_z_MbBz9C3OoGQEy1bNOrmnNbo2e0XtCUDRbdRR4mbCYK8h-
Lz7_VlhDtbTkPQziwwyNpw3ylfEKjMKtj-D0pUah4arohs1hcnHrzoFfE-QZRwUdQmEReMdpSgIT)-->

ValueVector representation of the equivalent JSON:

x: [ {name:’Sam’, age:1}, {name:’Max’, age:2} ]

x: [ {name:’Joe’, age:3} ]

Selection Vectors

A Selection Vector represents a subset of a ValueVector. It is implemented
with a list of offsets which identify each element in the ValueVector to be
included in the SelectionVector. In the case of a fixed width ValueVector, the
offsets reference the underlying ByteBuf. In the case of a nullable, repeated
or variable width ValueVector, the offset references the corresponding lookup
table. The following illustrates a SelectionVector of INT4 (fixed width)
values 2, 3 and 5 from the original vector of [1 .. 6]:

![](../img/value6.png)
<!--![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-hLlAaq9n-Q0_fZ_MKk3yFpXWZO7JOJLm-
NDh_a_x2Ir5BhZDrZX0t-6e_w3K7R4gfgQIsv-sPxryTUzrJRszNpA3pEEn5V5uRCAlMtHejTpcu-
_QFPfSTzzpdsf88OS)-->

The following illustrates the same ValueVector with nullable fields:

![](../img/value7.png)
<!--![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com
/cJxo5H_nsWWlKFUFxjOHHC6YI4sPyG5Fjj1gbdAT2AEo-c6cdkZelso6rYeZV4leMWMfbei_-
rncjasvR9u4MUXgkpFpM22CUSnnkVX6ynpkcLW1Q-s5F2NgqCez1Fa_)-->

